README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://three-nebula.org/">
    <img alt="react-router" src="https://three-nebula.org/favicon/nebula-logo-favicon-master.svg" width="100">
  </a>
</p>

<h3 align="center">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;three-nebula</h3>

<p align="center">
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;WebGL based 3D particle system engine for <a href="https://threejs.org">three</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://github.com/creativelifeform/three-nebula/actions?query=workflow%3Aci"><img src="https://github.com/creativelifeform/three-nebula/workflows/ci/badge.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/creativelifeform/three-nebula?branch=master&kill_cache=1"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/creativelifeform/three-nebula/badge.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://threejs.org"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/three-v0.122.0-%230C7BB8"></a>
  <a href="https://spectrum.chat/nebula"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/spectrum-chat-%237816F9"></a>
</p>

<hr/>

[CHANGELOG](https://github.com/creativelifeform/three-nebula/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

**Three Nebula** is a WebGL based 3D particle engine that has been designed to work alongside [`three.js`](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js). Check out the [website](https://three-nebula.org/), [examples](https://three-nebula.org/examples), the [quickstart sandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/three-nebula-quickstart-kz6uv) and [API reference documentation](https://three-nebula-docs.netlify.com/) for more.

## Features

- Perfect compatibility with [`three@0.122.0`](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js)
- The ability to instantiate `three-nebula` particle systems from JSON objects
- The ability to create particle systems from sprites as well as 3D meshes
- Many kinds of particle behaviours and initializers

## Installation

### npm

```
npm i --save three-nebula
```

### script

```
<script type='text/javascript' src='node_modules/three-nebula/build/three-nebula.js'></script>
```

## Usage

### Module

```javascript
import System, {
  Emitter,
  Rate,
  Span,
  Position,
  Mass,
  Radius,
  Life,
  Velocity,
  PointZone,
  Vector3D,
  Alpha,
  Scale,
  Color,
} from 'three-nebula';
import * as THREE from 'three';

const system = new System();
const emitter = new Emitter();
const renderer = new SpriteRenderer(threeScene, THREE);

// Set emitter rate (particles per second) as well as the particle initializers and behaviours
emitter
  .setRate(new Rate(new Span(4, 16), new Span(0.01)))
  .setInitializers([
    new Position(new PointZone(0, 0)),
    new Mass(1),
    new Radius(6, 12),
    new Life(3),
    new RadialVelocity(45, new Vector3D(0, 1, 0), 180),
  ])
  .setBehaviours([
    new Alpha(1, 0),
    new Scale(0.1, 1.3),
    new Color(new THREE.Color(), new THREE.Color()),
  ]);

// add the emitter and a renderer to your particle system
system
  .addEmitter(emitter)
  .addRenderer(renderer)
  .emit({ onStart, onUpdate, onEnd });
```

You can also instantiate your system from a JSON object

```javascript
import System from 'three-nebula';

const json = {
  preParticles: 500,
  integrationType: 'euler',
  emitters: [
    {
      rate: {
        particlesMin: 5,
        particlesMax: 7,
        perSecondMin: 0.01,
        perSecondMax: 0.02,
      },
      position: {
        x: 70,
        y: 0,
      },
      initializers: [
        {
          type: 'Mass',
          properties: {
            min: 1,
            max: 1,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Life',
          properties: {
            min: 2,
            max: 2,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'BodySprite',
          properties: {
            texture: './img/dot.png',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Radius',
          properties: {
            width: 80,
            height: 80,
          },
        },
      ],
      behaviours: [
        {
          type: 'Alpha',
          properties: {
            alphaA: 1,
            alphaB: 0,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Color',
          properties: {
            colorA: '#4F1500',
            colorB: '#0029FF',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Scale',
          properties: {
            scaleA: 1,
            scaleB: 0.5,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Force',
          properties: {
            fx: 0,
            fy: 0,
            fz: -20,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      rate: {
        particlesMin: 5,
        particlesMax: 7,
        perSecondMin: 0.01,
        perSecondMax: 0.02,
      },
      position: {
        x: -70,
        y: 0,
      },
      initializers: [
        {
          type: 'Mass',
          properties: {
            min: 1,
            max: 1,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Life',
          properties: {
            min: 2,
            max: 2,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'BodySprite',
          properties: {
            texture: './img/dot.png',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Radius',
          properties: {
            width: 80,
            height: 80,
          },
        },
      ],
      behaviours: [
        {
          type: 'Alpha',
          properties: {
            alphaA: 1,
            alphaB: 0,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Color',
          properties: {
            colorA: '#004CFE',
            colorB: '#6600FF',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Scale',
          properties: {
            scaleA: 1,
            scaleB: 0.5,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Force',
          properties: {
            fx: 0,
            fy: 0,
            fz: -20,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  ],
};

new System.fromJSONAsync(json, THREE).then(system => {
  console.log(system);
});
```

### Script Tag

If you are adding `three-nebula` to your project in the script tag, the only difference to the above example is how you access the classes you need. You can do that like so

```javascript
const { System, Emitter, Rate, Span } = window.Nebula;
const system = new System();
```

## Development

### Scripts

There are a few NPM scripts in the root package.json:

- `build` - Builds the module and writes the code into `./build/three-nebula.js`
- `docs:build` - Copies the latest build to `./docs/js` and builds the API reference docs
- `test` - Runs all specs
- `test:only <spec>` - Runs a specific spec
- `test:watch` - Watches tests
- `test:watch-only <spec>` - Watches a specific spec
- `lint` - Lints code and circular dependencies in `./src`
- `coverage:generate` - Generates a code coverage report
- `coverage:view` - View the code coverage report
- `coverage:publish` - Publishes the coverage report
- `git:publish <commit-message>` - Builds the module, adds all changed files commits with the message you supply and pushes to remote

## License

[MIT](LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

Cleaned up experiment a bit and added blurb about the sandbox to the readme

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://three-nebula.org/">
    <img alt="react-router" src="https://three-nebula.org/favicon/nebula-logo-favicon-master.svg" width="100">
  </a>
</p>

<h3 align="center">&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;three-nebula</h3>

<p align="center">
  &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;WebGL based 3D particle system engine for <a href="https://threejs.org">three</a>
</p>

<p align="center">
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
  <a href="https://github.com/creativelifeform/three-nebula/actions?query=workflow%3Aci"><img src="https://github.com/creativelifeform/three-nebula/workflows/ci/badge.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://coveralls.io/github/creativelifeform/three-nebula?branch=master&kill_cache=1"><img src="https://coveralls.io/repos/github/creativelifeform/three-nebula/badge.svg"></a>
  <a href="https://threejs.org"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/three-v0.122.0-%230C7BB8"></a>
  <a href="https://spectrum.chat/nebula"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/spectrum-chat-%237816F9"></a>
</p>

<hr/>

[CHANGELOG](https://github.com/creativelifeform/three-nebula/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md)

**Three Nebula** is a WebGL based 3D particle engine that has been designed to work alongside [`three.js`](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js). Check out the [website](https://three-nebula.org/), [examples](https://three-nebula.org/examples), the [quickstart sandbox](https://codesandbox.io/s/three-nebula-quickstart-kz6uv) and [API reference documentation](https://three-nebula-docs.netlify.com/) for more.

## Features

- Perfect compatibility with [`three@0.122.0`](https://github.com/mrdoob/three.js)
- The ability to instantiate `three-nebula` particle systems from JSON objects
- The ability to create particle systems from sprites as well as 3D meshes
- Many kinds of particle behaviours and initializers

## Installation

### npm

```
npm i --save three-nebula
```

### script

```
<script type='text/javascript' src='node_modules/three-nebula/build/three-nebula.js'></script>
```

## Usage

### Module

```javascript
import System, {
  Emitter,
  Rate,
  Span,
  Position,
  Mass,
  Radius,
  Life,
  Velocity,
  PointZone,
  Vector3D,
  Alpha,
  Scale,
  Color,
} from 'three-nebula';
import * as THREE from 'three';

const system = new System();
const emitter = new Emitter();
const renderer = new SpriteRenderer(threeScene, THREE);

// Set emitter rate (particles per second) as well as the particle initializers and behaviours
emitter
  .setRate(new Rate(new Span(4, 16), new Span(0.01)))
  .setInitializers([
    new Position(new PointZone(0, 0)),
    new Mass(1),
    new Radius(6, 12),
    new Life(3),
    new RadialVelocity(45, new Vector3D(0, 1, 0), 180),
  ])
  .setBehaviours([
    new Alpha(1, 0),
    new Scale(0.1, 1.3),
    new Color(new THREE.Color(), new THREE.Color()),
  ]);

// add the emitter and a renderer to your particle system
system
  .addEmitter(emitter)
  .addRenderer(renderer)
  .emit({ onStart, onUpdate, onEnd });
```

You can also instantiate your system from a JSON object

```javascript
import System from 'three-nebula';

const json = {
  preParticles: 500,
  integrationType: 'euler',
  emitters: [
    {
      rate: {
        particlesMin: 5,
        particlesMax: 7,
        perSecondMin: 0.01,
        perSecondMax: 0.02,
      },
      position: {
        x: 70,
        y: 0,
      },
      initializers: [
        {
          type: 'Mass',
          properties: {
            min: 1,
            max: 1,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Life',
          properties: {
            min: 2,
            max: 2,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'BodySprite',
          properties: {
            texture: './img/dot.png',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Radius',
          properties: {
            width: 80,
            height: 80,
          },
        },
      ],
      behaviours: [
        {
          type: 'Alpha',
          properties: {
            alphaA: 1,
            alphaB: 0,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Color',
          properties: {
            colorA: '#4F1500',
            colorB: '#0029FF',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Scale',
          properties: {
            scaleA: 1,
            scaleB: 0.5,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Force',
          properties: {
            fx: 0,
            fy: 0,
            fz: -20,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
    {
      rate: {
        particlesMin: 5,
        particlesMax: 7,
        perSecondMin: 0.01,
        perSecondMax: 0.02,
      },
      position: {
        x: -70,
        y: 0,
      },
      initializers: [
        {
          type: 'Mass',
          properties: {
            min: 1,
            max: 1,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Life',
          properties: {
            min: 2,
            max: 2,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'BodySprite',
          properties: {
            texture: './img/dot.png',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Radius',
          properties: {
            width: 80,
            height: 80,
          },
        },
      ],
      behaviours: [
        {
          type: 'Alpha',
          properties: {
            alphaA: 1,
            alphaB: 0,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Color',
          properties: {
            colorA: '#004CFE',
            colorB: '#6600FF',
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Scale',
          properties: {
            scaleA: 1,
            scaleB: 0.5,
          },
        },
        {
          type: 'Force',
          properties: {
            fx: 0,
            fy: 0,
            fz: -20,
          },
        },
      ],
    },
  ],
};

new System.fromJSONAsync(json, THREE).then(system => {
  console.log(system);
});
```

### Script Tag

If you are adding `three-nebula` to your project in the script tag, the only difference to the above example is how you access the classes you need. You can do that like so

```javascript
const { System, Emitter, Rate, Span } = window.Nebula;
const system = new System();
```

## Development

### Sandbox

The sandbox located in `./sandbox` contains a kind of plain JavaScript bootstrapping framework for testing and experimenting with library changes. The experiments in here are not permanent and will get updated/added/removed from time to time.

Because of the visual and graphical nature of the library it is sometimes very helpful to have simple barebones examples that allow you to dig into the root cause of an issue or try new things out.

The sandbox can easily be run via

```
npm run sandbox
```

This will serve the sandbox at `http://localhost:5000` and you can checkout the various experiments in the browser. It will also auto rebuild the library code and push the rebuilt bundle to the sandbox so all you need to do in order to see your changes is to refresh the browser.

### Scripts

There are a few NPM scripts in the root package.json:

- `build` - Builds the module and writes the code into `./build/three-nebula.js`
- `docs:build` - Copies the latest build to `./docs/js` and builds the API reference docs
- `test` - Runs all specs
- `test:only <spec>` - Runs a specific spec
- `test:watch` - Watches tests
- `test:watch-only <spec>` - Watches a specific spec
- `lint` - Lints code and circular dependencies in `./src`
- `coverage:generate` - Generates a code coverage report
- `coverage:view` - View the code coverage report
- `coverage:publish` - Publishes the coverage report
- `git:publish <commit-message>` - Builds the module, adds all changed files commits with the message you supply and pushes to remote

## License

[MIT](LICENSE.md)
